readme.md, before:

# Web 322 examples

The repo contains examples for the WEB 322 course for Seneca College.

## Contents

* [Requirements](#a0)
* [Cloning the repo](#a1)
* [Running the examples locally](#a2)
* [Running the examples on Heroku](#a3)
* [Descriptions of the examples](#a4)
* [Submitting corrections or updates](#a5)

<a name="a0"></a>
## Requirements

The examples require some preparation ahead of time to be able to pull them down and run them. The first thing you will need is Git on your computer. Windows users can download [Git for Windows (msysgit)](https://git-for-windows.github.io/) and Mac users will need [Git for Mac](https://git-scm.com/download/mac)

After installing Git you will be able to clone this repository.

You will need to also install other applications to run the examples once the repository is cloned.
* [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) Get the 64 bit version.
* [Mongo DB](https://www.mongodb.com/download-center?jmp=nav#community) Get the 64 bit version.

<a name="a1"></a>
## Cloning the repo

The command to clone the repo is:
> `git clone https://github.com/Seneca-WEB322/examples.git`.

You will want to already be in the folder where you want the repo to be cloned and stored. A good place is c:\gitrepos on windows or /gitrepos on mac. A gitrepos folder right in your root of your main drive. You can put it anywhere you want though.

<a name="a2"></a>
## Running the examples locally

One you have cloned the repo you will want to make sure you are in the main folder and you can set up the examples.

The main step is to run npm install in the repo to install all the packages that the examples are dependant on.
> `npm install`

The week 8 example requires MongoDB to be running as well. See the class notes for instructions on that.

When you want to deploy one of the examples to Heroku you will need to edit the package.json file for the `start` property uder scripts. Change the command to the example you want Heroku to run.

For example, to run the week 2 example on Heroku, make the following changes in package.json:
```
"scripts": {
  "start": "node week2.js"
},
```

<a name="a3"></a>
## Running the examples on Heroku

See the guide for working with Heroku to learn about setting up your account and pushing code first. This readme assumes you are already familiar with how to push to Heroku and have your account setup already.

To run the examples on your Heroku account, you just have to edit the package.json and set the script property to the file you want Heroku to run automatically.

To have Heroku run the week 5 example edit your package.json file like this:
```
"scripts": {
  "start": "node week5.js"
},
```

<a name="a4"></a>
## Descriptions of the examples

* heroku.js - A basic hello world example you can push to Heroku to test your account
* week2.js - A basic hello world using Express.js
* week4.js - A more detailed Express.js example with routes and 404 handling
* week5.js - An Express.js app that handles file uploading
* week8.js - An Express.js photo book app that connects to MongoDB and handles saving pictures
* week10.js - An Express.js app with client sessions and basic logins
* week12.js - A more advanced Express.js app with secure HTTPS logins and client sessions

<a name="a5"></a>
## Submitting corrections or updates

You can submit a correction or update to the code if you find it is necessary. Examples are bug fixes, package updates, updates for Heroku requirements, readme.md fixes, etc.

Speak to your professor about forking the repo, creating a patch, and submitting a pull request for the changes. You may need permission to create an issue or pull request on this repository.

Commit message:

Small update to include instructions for cloning from within VS Code.

readme.md, after:

# Web 322 examples

The repo contains examples for the WEB 322 course for Seneca College.

## Contents

* [Requirements](#a0)
* [Cloning the repo](#a1)
* [Running the examples locally](#a2)
* [Running the examples on Heroku](#a3)
* [Descriptions of the examples](#a4)
* [Submitting corrections or updates](#a5)

<a name="a0"></a>
## Requirements

The examples require some preparation ahead of time to be able to pull them down and run them. The first thing you will need is Git on your computer. Windows users can download [Git for Windows (msysgit)](https://git-for-windows.github.io/) and Mac users will need [Git for Mac](https://git-scm.com/download/mac)

After installing Git you will be able to clone this repository.

You will need to also install other applications to run the examples once the repository is cloned.
* [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) Get the 64 bit version.
* [Mongo DB](https://www.mongodb.com/download-center?jmp=nav#community) Get the 64 bit version.

<a name="a1"></a>
## Cloning the repo

The command to clone the repo is:
> `git clone https://github.com/Seneca-WEB322/examples.git`.

You will want to already be in the folder where you want the repo to be cloned and stored. A good place is c:\gitrepos on windows or /gitrepos on mac. A gitrepos folder right in your root of your main drive. You can put it anywhere you want though.

Important Note: If you run the 'git clone' command from within an open folder Visual Studio Code, you will need to close the current folder and open the newly cloned 'examples' folder before you start working.

<a name="a2"></a>
## Running the examples locally

One you have cloned the repo you will want to make sure you are in the main folder and you can set up the examples.

The main step is to run npm install in the repo to install all the packages that the examples are dependant on.
> `npm install`

The week 8 example requires MongoDB to be running as well. See the class notes for instructions on that.

When you want to deploy one of the examples to Heroku you will need to edit the package.json file for the `start` property uder scripts. Change the command to the example you want Heroku to run.

For example, to run the week 2 example on Heroku, make the following changes in package.json:
```
"scripts": {
  "start": "node week2.js"
},
```

<a name="a3"></a>
## Running the examples on Heroku

See the guide for working with Heroku to learn about setting up your account and pushing code first. This readme assumes you are already familiar with how to push to Heroku and have your account setup already.

To run the examples on your Heroku account, you just have to edit the package.json and set the script property to the file you want Heroku to run automatically.

To have Heroku run the week 5 example edit your package.json file like this:
```
"scripts": {
  "start": "node week5.js"
},
```

<a name="a4"></a>
## Descriptions of the examples

* heroku.js - A basic hello world example you can push to Heroku to test your account
* week2.js - A basic hello world using Express.js
* week4.js - A more detailed Express.js example with routes and 404 handling
* week5.js - An Express.js app that handles file uploading
* week8.js - An Express.js photo book app that connects to MongoDB and handles saving pictures
* week10.js - An Express.js app with client sessions and basic logins
* week12.js - A more advanced Express.js app with secure HTTPS logins and client sessions

<a name="a5"></a>
## Submitting corrections or updates

You can submit a correction or update to the code if you find it is necessary. Examples are bug fixes, package updates, updates for Heroku requirements, readme.md fixes, etc.

Speak to your professor about forking the repo, creating a patch, and submitting a pull request for the changes. You may need permission to create an issue or pull request on this repository.
